# CS313 Project 5 2024

# P2P File Sharing

### Description

For this project, the requirement was to implement a peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing program, that offered anonymity of the clients and security for the sharing of files. The framework was to have multiple clients connect to a single server. The server's role was to manage interactions between the clients by means of message passing (both text and commands). The clients, once introduced by the server, should then be able to transfer files P2P, from one client to the other without server interference. The client should have at least the functionality to support one concurrent upload and download each. The client would search for files with a server command which will return the results from each client connected. This client could then choose which file to download and begin after some security measures.

### Executing the program

1. You must have the Apache Netbeans 14 IDE installed on your computer.
2. Open the IDE.
3. Move your cursor to the top left of the application and click on “File” and then “Open Project” (or use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+O).
4. Navigate to the directory of your desired project that you want to open.
5. Select the project folder that contains the folders generated by Netbeans upon creating a project, namely “nbproject” and “src”. In this case the project folder is called “P2P-File-Share” and it should have a little coffee-cup-on-a-saucer icon to the left of it indicating that it is a Java project. Once selected click on “Open Project” at the bottom right of the window.
6. To run the Server, first click on the ServerWindow.java file to open it, **click on any line of code in the file (so that Netbeans knows that this file is the file you want to run), then either left click to open a drop-down list and click on “Run File” or use the keyboard shortcut Shift+F6**. Now the built-in terminal will be displayed and the GUI window for the Server will also be displayed.
7. To run the Client, first click on the ClientWindow.java file to open it and then repeat the process in step 6 above that is **bold**. Now the built-in terminal will be displayed and the GUI window for the Client will also be displayed.


### Installing the Apache Netbeans IDE

* For Windows:
    * Navigate to this link on your internet browser: https://netbeans.apache.org/front/main/download/nb14/
    * Download the installer called 'Apache-NetBeans-14-bin-windows-x64.exe'
    * Once downloaded, run the installer.
* For Ubuntu/Linux:
    * Follow the instructions from this web page: https://linux.how2shout.com/3-ways-to-install-netbeans-ide-on-ubuntu-22-04-or-20-04-lts/S

## Author

Keagan Selwyn Gill
