# CS313 Project 2 2024

# Reliable Blast User Datagram Protocol (RBUDP), Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and their comparison

### Description

For this project, the goal was to implement a basic file transfer protocol, using both Reliable Blast User Datagram Protocol (RBUDP) and the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) with the ability to transfer files on a local network as well as across different network connections over different machines via a VPN. LogMeIn Hamachi was used as the VPN.

### Executing the program

1. You must have the Apache Netbeans 14 IDE installed on your computer.
2. Open the IDE.
3. Move your cursor to the top left of the application and click on “File” and then “Open Project” (or use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+O).
4. Navigate to the directory of your desired project that you want to open.
5. Select the project folder that contains the folders generated by Netbeans upon creating a project, namely “nbproject” and “src”. In this case the project folder is called “RBUDP and TCP” and it should have a little coffee-cup-on-a-saucer icon to the left of it indicating that it is a Java project. Once selected click on “Open Project” at the bottom right of the window.
6. To run the RBUDP program, first click on the RBUDPReceiverWindow.java file to open it, **click on any line of code in the file (so that Netbeans knows that this file is the file you want to run), then either left click to open a drop-down list and click on “Run File” or use the keyboard shortcut Shift+F6**. Now the built-in terminal will be displayed, and you should see the text, “Waiting to receive next file…”. The GUI window for the Receiver will also be displayed.
    * Now we run the Sender, so click on the RBUDPSenderWindow.java file to open it, now repeat the process in step 6 above that is **bold**. Now the built-in terminal will be displayed, and you should see the text, “Listening for input…” repeating. The GUI window for the Sender will also be displayed.
7. To run the TCP program, first click on the TCPSenderWindow.java file to open it and then repeat the process in step 6 above that is **bold**. The GUI for the Sender will then be displayed.
    * Now we run the Receiver, so click on the TCPReceiverWindow.java file to open it and then repeat the process in step 6 above that is **bold**. The GUI for the Receiver will then be displayed.


### Installing the Apache Netbeans IDE

* For Windows:
    * Navigate to this link on your internet browser: https://netbeans.apache.org/front/main/download/nb14/
    * Download the installer called 'Apache-NetBeans-14-bin-windows-x64.exe'
    * Once downloaded, run the installer.
* For Ubuntu/Linux:
    * Follow the instructions from this web page: https://linux.how2shout.com/3-ways-to-install-netbeans-ide-on-ubuntu-22-04-or-20-04-lts/S

## Author

Keagan Selwyn Gill
