# CS313 Project 4 2024

# VoIP Chat Program

### Description

For this project, the goal was to implement a chat program where clients can send messages, form groups, send messages and voice notes within those groups and make group calls using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). A VoIP system implementation was therefore also required to enable multiple users to call each other over the local network.

### Executing the program

1. You must have the Apache Netbeans 14 IDE installed on your computer.
2. Open the IDE.
3. Move your cursor to the top left of the application and click on “File” and then “Open Project” (or use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+O).
4. Navigate to the directory of your desired project that you want to open.
5. Select the project folder that contains the folders generated by Netbeans upon creating a project, namely “nbproject” and “src”. In this case the project folder is called “VoIP-Chatroom2” and it should have a little coffee-cup-on-a-saucer icon to the left of it indicating that it is a Java project. Once selected click on “Open Project” at the bottom right of the window.
6. To run the Server, first click on the ServerWindow.java file to open it, **click on any line of code in the file (so that Netbeans knows that this file is the file you want to run), then either left click to open a drop-down list and click on “Run File” or use the keyboard shortcut Shift+F6**. Now the built-in terminal will be displayed and the GUI window for the Server will also be displayed.
7. To run the Client, first click on the ClientWindow.java file to open it and then repeat the process in step 6 above that is **bold**. Now the built-in terminal will be displayed and the GUI for the Client will then be displayed.


### Installing the Apache Netbeans IDE

* For Windows:
    * Navigate to this link on your internet browser: https://netbeans.apache.org/front/main/download/nb14/
    * Download the installer called 'Apache-NetBeans-14-bin-windows-x64.exe'
    * Once downloaded, run the installer.
* For Ubuntu/Linux:
    * Follow the instructions from this web page: https://linux.how2shout.com/3-ways-to-install-netbeans-ide-on-ubuntu-22-04-or-20-04-lts/S

## Author

Keagan Selwyn Gill
