# CS313 Project 1 2024

# Multi-Client-Server Chat Program

### Description

This project is an implementation in Java for a chat program based on the client-server model with the ability to add multiple clients to a centralized server, each with their own GUI, and can concurrently send messages to one another on either on a local network or across different network connections via a VPN with LogMeIn Hamachi.

### Executing the program

* You must have the Apache Netbeans 14 IDE installed on your computer.
* Open the IDE.
* Move your cursor to the top left of the application and click on “File” and then “Open Project” (or use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+O).
* Navigate to the directory of your desired project that you want to open.
* Select the project folder that contains the folders generated by Netbeans upon creating a project, namely “nbproject” and “src”. In this case the project folder is called “Chatroom” and it should have a little coffee-cup-on-a-saucer icon to the left of it indicating that it is a Java project. Once selected click on “Open Project” at the bottom right of the window.
* To run the project, first click on the Server.java file to open it, click on any line of code in the file (so that Netbeans knows that this file is the file you want to run), then either left click to open a drop-down list and click on “Run File” or use the keyboard shortcut Shift+F6. Now the built-in terminal will be displayed and you should see the text, “Server running on port 4000”.
* Now to run a client, first click on the Client.java file to open it, click on any line of code in the file, then either left click to open a drop-down list and click on “Run File” or use the keyboard shortcut Shift+F6. Then a GUI window for the client should open.

### Installing the Apache Netbeans IDE

* For Windows:
    * Navigate to this link on your internet browser: https://netbeans.apache.org/front/main/download/nb14/
    * Download the installer called 'Apache-NetBeans-14-bin-windows-x64.exe'
    * Once downloaded, run the installer.
* For Ubuntu/Linux:
    * Follow the instructions from this web page: https://linux.how2shout.com/3-ways-to-install-netbeans-ide-on-ubuntu-22-04-or-20-04-lts/S

## Author

Keagan Selwyn Gill
